Windows Defender helps protect your computer
against slow system performance
and security threats caused by viruses and
spyware.
Malware might install itself without your
knowledge.
It could come from an email, a website, or
software you installed.
This video shows how to use Windows Defender
to scan for malicious software in Windows 8.
To open Windows Defender, type defender in
the Windows Start screen.
Then select Windows Defender from the search
results.
The Home window opens.
If PC Status: Protected displays in the window title bar,
Windows Defender is enabled and Real-time
protection is turned on.
This feature allows Windows Defender to notify
you when malware tries to install itself or
run on your computer.
If PC Status: At risk displays in the window
title bar, click the Turn On button to enable
Real-time protection.
From the Home screen, you can select Quick
to run a quick scan that checks
the places on the hard drive where malware
is most likely to infect.
Or, you can select Full to run a scan that
checks all files on your hard drive and all
currently running programs.
Or, if you suspect malware in a specific area
of your computer, you can run a custom scan
on individual drives and folders.
For this example, we will run a quick scan.
To do this, select Quick, and then click Scan now.
The progress bar shows the status of the scan. Scan times will vary.
When the scan is complete, the results appear. In this case, you see number of items scanned and the message
"No threats detected on your PC during this scan." If Windows Defender detects
harmful software, the software names would appear in this window.
With a custom scan, you can change the file
types, locations, and processes that are scanned.
To include archived files, such as .zip or
.cab files, and removable drives in a scan,
click the Settings tab, click Advanced, and
then make sure the Scan archive files box
is checked.
To include removable drives, select Scan removable
drives, and then click Save changes.
To increase the speed of a scan, you can exclude
files, locations, and processes from a scan.
To exclude specific files and locations, click
Excluded files and locations.
Click Browse. Find the file or location you
want to exclude.
For this example, we will select the Saved
Games folder. Click OK.
The folder name appears in the File Location
box. Select the file and click Add.
The added file name displays in the Name box.
To select more files or locations,
click the Browse button and repeat the process.
When you have added all the files you want to exclude, click Save changes.
The selected files and locations will be excluded from the next custom scan.
To exclude all files of a certain type, click
Excluded file types.
For this example, we will exclude all "MOV"
videos. Type "mov" in the File extensions
box, and click Add.
The file types and extensions appear in the
box below.
If you change your mind, you can also remove
them from the box by highlighting the file
and clicking Remove.
Click Save changes.
The file type will be excluded from the next
custom scan.
To exclude processes, click Excluded processes. You can click Browse to find the process file.
Or, if you know the process file name, type
the name in the Process names box.
For this example, we will exclude the WinMail.exe process. Type "WinMail dot exe" and click Add.
The file name displays in the Name box. After
you have added the process files you want
to exclude, click Save changes.
The processes will be excluded from the next
custom scan.
After making changes to the scan settings,
use the Custom scan option on the Home tab
to run future scans.
If Windows Defender detects malware, it quarantines
the software and prevents
the software from running until you restore
it or remove it.
To view a list of quarantined items, select
the History tab, click Quarantined items,
and then click View Details.
Quarantined items appear in the Detected item
box. To get additional information, click
the item and scroll through the box below.
After reviewing the information, you can choose
to Remove all, Remove, or Restore the item.
You can find additional helpful videos at
hp.com/supportvideos
and on our YouTube channel, youtube.com/howto4u